# Variations on the theme of the John Muir Way
*19 May 2024*

Well I concur, perhaps I was a *tad* hopeful when I [suggested](./sunday_post.html) that I might write one of these a week! I have accordingly updated the page to a marginally more realistic once a month (and believe me, that is *far* from a promise too!).

Anyhow, it would seem that the terrible excitement of having submitted all of my university work for this year has made me rather giddy. A great deal of the reason I have been unable to uphold my 1-a-week pledge has indeed been because I have been outdoors for nearly every hour it could be considered respectable to be so. Indeed thus, consider this a satiety of all the missed write-ups in weeks bygone. 

I have walked what felt at the time like a good chunk of the [John Muir Way](https://johnmuirway.org/) (specifically the bits around Edinburgh), but after further capitulation with the help of a map indeed paled in significance to the whole route itself. I have been using buses to great effect as a way of walking further: I feel no longer inhibited to the bounds of the city. And indeed, early one morning, to Queensferry Street I went, to catch the number 43.

The 43 comes under the "Lothian Country" bus family - those which venture outside of Edinburgh's Borders. The classification though seems rather unrelated to distance, as many of the "City" buses have longer routes (such as my very favorite, the [number 44](./balerno_edinburgh.html)). The 43 takes a quick route out of the city, via the back end of Corstorphine Hill, through Davisons Mains and Barnton junctions, and finally out along the A90. At this point, it rather starts to live up to its name of a "country" service, as it runs along roads and through villages which do feel as if they perhaps weren't designed for a 13-tonne double decker bus to run along. One arrives quite swiftly though, into the village of Dalmeny - then in but a short few minutes into South Queensferry itself. I opted to alight at Dalmeny Station - indeed not the closest stop to my target, but one which would allow for a pleasant stroll in order to familiarise myself with the area.

South Queensferry I must say is a curious place. It has rather a mixed identity - it is both a place of great beauty popular with the more adventurous tourist, yet also a place which retains at least some fragment of its industrial heritage. I say that it is curious though, because of the simply undeniable force of visual dominance with which the town must compete - perhaps the three most famous bridges in Scotland, the Forth Rail Bridge, the Forth Road Bridge and the newest of the three, the Queensferry Crossing. Queensferry (the town) does though deserve some credit for how well it holds up in comparison.

I had thus far held Queensferry in the same light as I presume many others who have crossed the bridges on trains or in cars have: 'look there - the little bit of Edinburgh that got lost and lives under the bridge', but I indeed found the place to be a quite congenial little town with ample individualism and character. 

On though I plodded through its streets, until I came to a road whose name I knew from the map. I had been looking over it the night before and had come across a street which would lead me directly to the Queensferry crossing so that I might walk across the bridge. I had not been planning to do so but in a moment of impish impetuosity, I thought to myself, "a look can't hurt".

1-and-a-half miles later and now in Fife, my legs were beginning to beg to differ (knowing all too well they would have to get back over the river, then walk the further distance back in to Edinburgh itself). I pondered a look around North Queensferry, then realised how many steps I'd need to go down (and perhaps more pertinently back up again) before muttering to myself (quite possibly out loud) 'sod it, better leave something to do for another day', and walking on to find somewhere to eat lunch.

As it happened, I ended up climbing a short way anyway, up to a really rather strange place up the back of North Queensferry. It was an industrial-estate-come-housing-estate-come-common-land, an unusual combination admittedly. I walked about a little, found a loch and sat down to eat lunch overlooking the railway line and the motorway off in the distance. Admittedly not what I'd planned, but it was good enough. 

As I sat chewing through a disgustingly warm ham pita bread which I had all-too-hastily thrown together that morning, I noticed an encroaching invasion of flies. Now, let me say, I am not at all bothered by flies normally, but these were not at all normal flies. They had great dangly things hanging underneath them which made them look altogether more threatening and perhaps capable of stinging (or at least a whopping great bite). The pocket wildlife guide, though normally reliable in hostile situations as this, did not seem to have any resources for anything of this type. I finished up lunch and dashed embarrassingly quickly back through the gorse-lined paths wafting the things away in their great hoards. If the book wasn't going to give me answers, it could at least fend the damn things off for a while!

Glancing down at my watch - and seeing it approaching 1 already - I made sharpishly once again for South Queensferry. 